---
title:  "28-Hour Days"
author: arkadianriver
permalink: /topics/28-hour-days/
categories: topics
tags: featured
icon: clock-o
background-image: sunshine.jpg
excerpt: An experiment
script: |
  $(document).ready(function(){
    var date1 = new Date("2016-01-14 12:00:00");
    var date2 = new Date();
    var timeDiff = Math.abs(date2.getTime() - date1.getTime());
    var diffDays = Math.ceil(timeDiff / (1000 * 3600 * 24));
    var numweeks = (diffDays/7).toFixed(1);
    var str = Math.floor(numweeks);
    str = numweeks > 0 ? 'Over ' + str : str;
    $("#daycount").text(str);
  });
---
<span id="daycount"></span> weeks running as of today,
{{ site.time |  date: "%-d %B %Y" }}.
If you're interested in doing this, [see some tips](index.html#tips) at the end of
this article.

## Why the heck...?

During a typical day, my normal bed time would be about 2 a.m. I'd be hacking away
at the computer and just wouldn't get tired before midnight at the earliest.
That is, until the next day, because I'd force myself out of bed to work,
leaving little time for sleep. It was a frustrating schedule.

"Wouldn't it be nice," I thought, "if I could stay awake 20 hours, sleep a
full 8 hours, then stay awake another 20? But there just aren't 28 hours in a
day. Or are there?"

Brain starts calculating... "Whaddaya know, 28-hour days fits perfectly into a
week. Only _six_ 28-hour days, mind you, but still a regular schedule."
Calculates again... tick, tick, what's this? Even with just six 28-hour days,
you still get an extra 8 hours of wake time per week! (6x20 > 7x16) This is
awesome! Heck, if it turns out I need 9 hours of sleep with this schedule, I'd
still get an extra 2 hours of wake time a week.

Now, how can I make this work? How can I nudge the hours around so that it can
fit into a schedule where I'm awake the same time as other folks at work? I
get out the spreadsheet, draw a week of 24 hour days, and start shifting
hours.

I live on the west coast, but work with people around the world. It turns out,
if I start my week on Sundays at 6 p.m. (first time waking up during the
week), I can work east coast hours on Mondays and Tuesdays and west coast
hours Wednesdays and Thursdays. Fridays are kind of hosed though. But if I
work 10 hours a day Mon-Thu, I could take Fridays off. Our lab has kind of a
half-day Friday policy anyway. Hmm....

I typically need to work more than 40 hours a week. I'm in the software
industry and we all know how that is. Well, with this new schedule, there are
plenty of hours where I can write code while few others are awake. This could
be a great advantage. I choose to give myself an extra five hours of work time
on "Mondays" (Sunday night) and come up with this 45 hour a week schedule.

<!-- <div style="width:85%;" id="sleepshift"></div> -->
<iframe width="100%" height="690px" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/sleepshift/index.html"></iframe>

I finally search the web and discover, wow, I'm not alone. Many have
considered or tried this schedule, and most with the same reasoning as me.
This [xkcd comic](https://xkcd.com/320/) even has the same hours, which is odd,
since Randall Munroe lives in Massachusetts. But, from what I read, most
have since abandoned the idea. I'm still determined to try it.

## Giving it a go

Eager to get started, I tell folks at work&mdash;who are skeptical, but
otherwise have no problem with my schedule. Software companies are pretty
flexible with work hours as long as we get the job done well. And with my
role in globalization, my hours on Mondays and Tuesdays allow me to interact
with folks not only on the east coast, but also in Europe and India. And my
late hours Wednesdays and Thursdays put me in touch with folks in China and
Japan. It used to be that being on the west coast put me at a disadvantage in
this role because most of the world is off work during west coast hours.

So, Thursday, 14 January 2016, I start the experiment.

Thursdays and Fridays are pretty normal schedules, so those first two days are no problem.
That first weekend is rough, however. I don't prepare for getting good sleep
during the day as I should. Also, I notice that my body is waking
up 4 hours early, as if it adjusts to wake the same time as the previous day.
<a name="tips"></a>
Not good, and that first Monday at 9 a.m. I'm about ready to collapse.
I must fix this.

## Making it work&mdash;_Tips_

So near the end of that first week, I dedicate myself to doing a better job
next time. And I do.

- On the nights I'm awake, I find webcams throughout the world
  that I can tune into and leave full screen on one of the monitors. Along
  with the <i><a href="http://www.verilux.com/light-therapy-lamps/"
  target="_blank">Happy Light</a></i> that I already have (because I live in Seattle)
  the webcams help keep me going. I feel like I'm not alone in the world,
  seeing folks bustling around in the streets of London.

- On the days I'm sleeping, I take 3 mg of melatonin right before bed.
  That's a big help! Thanks for the tip,
  <a href="http://www.limedaring.com/articles/hacking-your-week-the-28-hour-day"
  target="_blank">Tracy Osborn</a>.

- An hour before bedtime, I do two things:

  - Music goes from amped trance or metal to
    <a href="http://www.pandora.com/station/3023974434785807708"
    target="_blank">soothing Ambient sounds</a>.

  - All lights go dim _including computer monitors_!
    <a href="https://justgetflux.com/" target="_blank">f.lux</a> is a great
    program for that. It's designed to start at sunset during your time zone,
    but for my odd sleep schedule, I get past that by hitting `Alt-PgDwn` a
    couple of times.

- Those first couple of weeks, it would take a few moments to remember my
  bedtime. I also found myself wanting to keep track of the time
  around the world so that I would know which webcams to pull up. It would be
  nice to glance at an app on my phone lock-screen to see the schedule
  and world clock. However, I can't find any, and not having written an app
  myself yet, I do the next best thing. I put a picture of the calendar on my
  lock-screen, and I script a <a target="_blank"
  href="http://arkadianriver.github.io/sleepshift">web page with the world
  clock</a> to keep open on one of my monitors. (What's displayed above.)

Now, it's been many weeks, and I've been doing great&mdash;feeling well rested and
getting lots of work done.

## Social life

Did you notice the Friday and Saturday nights on the schedule? Up all night. If
only I had thought of this when I was in my 20s! But, otherwise, if you're a
social person, this probably isn't for you. There's not much room for socializing
with local family and friends. But mine all know I'm kind of a recluse, so
spending just Friday and Saturday evenings with them works pretty well.

I do, however, get plenty of time to play
<a href="http://www.elitedangerous.com" target="_blank">Elite: Dangerous</a>
on weekends while UK fans of the game are also playing. :O)
